Given the security of inherited money. There's really nothing that you can do to avoid that
security and I think that's why. More than anything else. Individuals with inherited money
should be mandated. Absolutely required by moral law. From instructions of the
sixty's and that changed him for good when I was nineteen and and
activist in the anti-war movement. I began to feel that it was responsibility of people with a with a certain kind of
power whatever it was to utilize it for the social good and if we were students and had the
ability to simply cause trouble. To help stop the Vietnam War That was our responsibility to do
that then two years later when I heard of my money I realized there was a different kind of
power that I had which had different kind of rules. And much more complicated method
of utilization. Other words for my dollars to be given away every
year. Requires some kind of mechanism and ministration so be organized a foundation. He
called it the band God foundation. To give to give it away. Actually I had
many many fantasies about all the different things that I could do in all the different ways I could enjoy myself but I
realized I think in not a very subtle sense that I would not be happy. Simply spending my money
and jetting around the world. And for in for any individuals to have a vast concentrations of wealth is simply
unfair and they have enough. And there was they have enough to be able to have the advantages
that money brings to anybody. In fact they have too much. I think that I
think that basically the wealth of a society should be equitably distributed among the population
who's ever there at the time. We believe there shouldn't be a wealthy class of people. Given the security of
inherited money. There's really nothing that you can do to avoid that security and I think that's why.
More than anything else. Individuals with inherited money should be mandated.
Absolutely required by moral law. To give very significant
portions of what they have to support. Different social issues. And now what's happened in the
past the United States is that some of the fabulously wealthy families simply to develop another
mechanism to develop creating monuments for themselves pyramids for themselves. I mean there
are endless numbers of museums hospitals universities
University buildings named after the donors who put up the money there. Well they're better than
not having them done. But having gone through the anti-war movement and the civil rights movement.
I proceed with a different kind of perspective than my forebears did. And people of my own
class. One which acknowledges the need to involve minority
group people which are now being called Third World people in this country. Women and grassroots people
in decision making processes. And we feel that all of our granting. Even with our smaller
dollar amounts is directed towards allowing those people to develop leadership from their own community.
Develop expertise about policy issues. So that they can
articulate Lee push for their own interests. Because of the legal ways in which
wealth. Demonstrations of the
sixty's and that changed him for good. When I was nineteen and
activist in the anti-war movement. I began to feel that it was responsibility of people with a with a certain kind of
power whatever it was to utilize or for the social good and if we were students and had the
ability to simply cause trouble. To help stop the Vietnam War That was our responsibility to do
that then two years later when I heard my money I realized there was a different kind of
power that I had which had different kind of rules. And much more complicated method
of utilization. Other words for my dollars to be given away every
year. Requires some kind of mechanism ministration so be organized a foundation. He
called it the band God foundation. To give you wasn't easy to give it away. Actually
I had many many fantasies about all the different things that I could do and all the different ways I could
enjoy myself. But I realized I think in not a very subtle sense that
I would not be happy. Simply spending my money and jetting around the world. And for in for any individuals
that have a vest concentrations of wealth is simply unfair. They have enough. And there
was they have enough to be able to have the advantages that money brings to anybody.
In fact they have too much. I think that I think that basically the wealth of a society should
be equitably distributed among the population who's ever there at the time. We believe there shouldn't be a wealthy
class of people. Given the security of inherited money. There's really nothing that you can
do to avoid that security and I think that's why. More than anything else.
Individuals with inherited money should be mandated. Absolutely required by moral law.
To give birth certificate in portions of what they have to support.
Different social issues. And now what's happened in the past the United States is that some of the fabulously wealthy
families simply to develop another mechanism of develop. Creating monuments for
themselves pyramids for themselves. I mean they're. As of museums
hospitals and universities University buildings named after the donors who put up the
money they're well they're better than not having them done. But having gone through the anti-war
movement and the civil rights movement. I proceed with a different kind of perspective then my forebears
did. And people of my own class. One which acknowledges the need to involve
minority group people which are now being called Third World people in this country when the grassroots
people in decision making process and we feel that all of our granting.
Even with our smaller dollar amounts is directed towards allowing those people to develop leadership from their
own community. Develop expertise about policy issues.
So that they can. Articulately push for their own interests. Because of the law
to him but I like Mark and I
haven't thought of right here where you be running on for you when I use I'll be running on
some of the right I'll be running on the on will be on three white kids
were you were upset about on the board right. Very
true to run on but after Wyoming on
the bottle I will be on might I Why. Now many times you're going to stop on the road.
Wow. I want every night of course.
To get a few hours' sleep. But I do plan to average between
forty and fifty my competing with by Run be limited and will be eating
Australian food on the way. And followed by his wife Norma. Who's also was there a pieced.
She would be in a van equipped to handle old kinds of medical problems from heart attacks. To
pistis people out after training. We met by the feet and ankles of like respectively.
We kept replaying. How about the psychological toll to give him
her time for him. There's no other way to walk away protest. Just go and
I'll get to it. And after there another few will have to be done to think
even if we have to stop them from a lot of help be done. And we. I must say that I've
gotten. If you're for me what it was very difficult when he got what he got the first time the
first time I was with him. I thought you'd have to remember the fears and I didn't I didn't. People we. That
night because I'd just bought fifty. You know pretty well can do it but I thought OK I'm doing
it can't it can't be done and because of its condition
at that time the first one feeling. Even though he's running over time. I've got to
do in my career. I think
run for you right. Right at the end of
the money. I think.
Of course the want to
run into when you know
why you look at it from Oakland California this morning in a tiny Cessna plane. To commemorate the fiftieth
anniversary of his father's record breaking trip across the Pacific in one hundred twenty eight.
It was the same day. At the same time. Bernard Mays was there and talked with Kingsford Smith
just before he left the plane looks tiny a bit
tinier in fact in the famous Southern Cross. So his father's plane. But Kingsford Smith Jr.
Looks relaxed and ready to go. We can certainly do it now in this matter of fact I know it's going to be
highly adventurous something. I'm I'm excited right now the prospect anybody who likes to fly
and. There really are quite a few of us who do you know what would be tickled with this. With this prospect of
flying the Pacific and my intention basically was to learn a bit more about my dad
through the means of experiencing some of things that he experienced Of course this flight was
one of the primary factors in his flying. Life.
Kingsford Smith is taking extra fuel tanks but not much food. And on route across the Pacific.
He can be reached by ham radio operators on the twenty and fifty me to Ben's and he's calling
sign he's in for Norman. Zero. OK for King. S. For showed up. This is
there really are. Mr
King's would Smith it has been fifty years since your father. Blew his record breaking
flight across the Pacific. And of course. Times have changed but the weather is the same in the mists if
you are you made any special picked taken any special precautions. Yes I suppose the most
important. Precaution if that's the proper word for it is having a person
who really is experienced in this kind of flying to be
the principal pile I have flown myself for twenty one thousand years actually.
And I have about twelve hundred hours of strictly amateur experience but never flown
over the pond before in either ocean and it's hard enough for me to fly over one of the of the
lakes in the United States when one of the big lakes but. Put off by the size of
well. No and. You know if they could do it then and.
And they did it really quite well when you consider the history of the thing. I mean.
Flying really was his life obviously it's something that I've learned many years ago. And this was probably
the primary flight of all because it was the first one that you know he really established that airplanes were good for something
were good for crossing these vast oceans a mess of things so I want to experience
that and hereby learn something. Of his character.
Look at his logs and. I suppose and you found out some of the problems that he had to deal with.
Well I don't. I trust that we will not have any of those ourselves. In some of the
entries of the logs they had to deal with really. Violent storms. That's one factor
which chills the thoughts of most of us pilots and. These days
of course that's one of the areas in which technology has greatly improved things.
Satellite pictures white picture is weather forecasting based on much
more accurate information. More widely spread reporting stations. All
kinds of well. Other planes flying the route that one wants to take and so for the satellite picture so follow
good for your trip. I haven't seen it yet but once coming out the ceiling.
And we will look at it carefully. We're not so worried. Actually about encountering an
occasional storm or. Certainly flying through the clouds what we are more concerned about
is the effect of headwinds. On the fuel supply. Unless the storms are
really quite bad. The experience of going
into a storm I don't mean a violent storm that's really what we would have to avoid but we have some radar by the way
which we can use to avoid the violent storms but by just going through a cloud layer this kind of thing is not
hard at all but what is bad is if they had winds continue.
And are strong and hence eat up the fuel supply and one would get little antsy about
what's going to happen next and at least. I would guess I've never done this before so it was you don't remember
your mother of course remembers this sort of with some misgiving.
Certainly it's was a sponsor said experience with in favor of this
trip. Well basically. I think when I first told or two
years ago or or so when I got the idea that love to do this
and she had mixed feelings about she said Well. Australians I think will be very glad if you do.
And yet I knew without her saying it. That since that was probably the saddest experience of her life.
To lose her husband that way that she's always. She's never really totally
gotten over that. And who would. And and. I really tried
to assure her that. It's really pretty safe and in fact. My first idea
was to fly by myself or to fly with somebody else who was equally
inexperienced as I and and. It's probably just as well that that idea didn't pan out because
the way we are doing it now with a very experienced person as the primary pilot and me
as as the second or process. Is probably the best combination of all I
still get to make the make the trip and yet the anxiety level of everybody is considerably lower than it would have been quite right about
Australians. Looking forward to your arrival in Sydney they're all waiting now I know but
you think you'll stay. It's you've been away from the straightest so long or yes I came over
here at the beginning of World War two just before World War two actually. So my
education. Most of my ideas have been formed in this country in the
US where we are presently. You know it's an idea which
really hasn't occurred much to me are we going to spend quite a bit of time over there so I'll really have time to to
think about this. Be there. You know out of this to it. Oh no no I'm reasonably
flexible. I would like to think anyway I don't you know. Want to screw my anchors into the ground so hard that I can't pull them out if
it were wise. Are you going to fly back again. Or would you use that I back on.
Quantas and. Whether you know the question of whether I would ever do this again is an interesting
question but also the reserve that for after this fight is over to see what it's like. How much. What
sort of supplies to take. Well. You mean the kinds of things that go to
increase the efficiency of the flight or the safety of the flight that's what I guess.
Food what the Course has that relates basically to the comfort of the pilots I suppose. And
according to Mr Rose the pilot is going to be with me. He says that is.
It's preferable to eat relatively lightly so we're going to take some fruit. And some fruit juices.
Some ice to cool it off with. And basically that's going to be at when we get to
Honolulu will have a big meal. Of course but I think it's probably preferable in this actually coincides wish. With my own
experience in flying. Less adventurous something so over the land. That it
is better to eat. Relatively lightly. Before one flies because for instance if we get into into
turbulence of any nature. Then a heavy tummy is just not what you need at all
seems fairly crowded inside they have a lot of equipment inside. That's
been understatement of the British Friday I assume. But it really
is quite crowded Normally it's a reasonably large plane that carry six people
but in order to make the flight. We have to extend the normal range of the plane which is about
eleven hundred miles to something closer to twenty nine hundred miles. And the way we
do that is to put extra tanks on board.
And these tanks. Put in the cabin they put tanks of potential. Petrol Exactly. They
put into the cabin they put into the nose there. I guess those the main places
that we add. At the petrol but the problem is
that they use up most of the interior space and. And so if you look at the the main
door of the plane. There's a little narrow passageway that we
can barely squeeze by if we twist ourselves into a pretzel shape practically and then we can
get into the cockpit that way and we can't even extend the seats back too far in the cockpit to stretch
out our legs because they've got the petrol tanks pushed up against the back of the seat so it will be crowded.
And I magine what is speak stream the glad to get to get to the ground again. But if
you have you had any practice draw I run. Yes I flew from Colorado to here.
Couple days ago and that was about a four. Plus our
trip and it was my first experience in this plane and. Keith Rose was
able to demonstrate to me all the various things that it does and. Give me the.
Give me some insight into its handling ability and all this kind of thing I was quite impressed with it and but.
But I was also impressed with the. Lack of space. And I just realized where
we're just going to have to have to have to weather this essential. Astronauts have the
same thing over space capsules a very crowded I guess they are right maybe I should think in those
terms and be grateful. At least I don't have to wear some sort of a silly suit you know and keep the
keep the air inside. We have the plane to do that for us. What about equipment a special equipment.
Your father had none of the use this didn't have radar didn't have any of these things at all did it all in all
with just. Just the plane itself. Yes but I am carrying one piece of gear which I've learned to use of
the last year practically and that's a sextant and. He
used one. He had he had a man who was quite good at that on the
plane that used was. Well yeah but. But he it was mainly used by the navigator
and. Although he had learned also to use it. But but but the man took shots
of the sun and sometimes at dusk would take measure the altitude of some of the stars that you could see
and I've learned how to do this and from this one can plot. Reasonably accurately within possibly
ten miles even in some good condition up to five miles accuracy. Actually where one as
we don't really need this in the sense that we have. We have aids that will do
this job. Also but. But I want to practice this I want to employ.
This technique because it was used on this something cross over to see if I can get myself. Be the only one
to be the only way that you find your way. Well we we
have a well the primary way that is done. I guess the safest way. Is
basically by holding the heading on the plane and. One has to
consider the effects of wins. Before you take off and hopefully as one proceeds the flight if
there's any evidence that the winds are changing are changed one adjusts the course too and so this
is a good technique and if one is careful with this in two thousand miles or or so
one can usually be within a couple of hundred miles of where one wants to be even if if. Guess
as to as to the winds and so forth. Isn't true. But then what we do is we have a
couple of receivers which are able to home in on strong. Broadcast actions and so forth up to six hundred miles away.
So it's quite safe. That way when these are the ways that this is the primary way that these
flights are usually carried out when flies into the vicinity
of the destination then uses the A.D.F. as it's called to actually see
where the destination is and then fly right. On to the needle and and find out that way. You
will be in contact with it and always be in time to time. We have two ways of doing that
we have the normal way that airplanes used to talk to the land. Which is a high frequency transceiver. And
we think every hour. Have to report where we are or where we estimate we are. And I
haven't. Amateur radio set I'm rather a team keen ham radio operator.
So. And for anybody who like to know I am and zero K.S.. I just got that call
a few months ago. No it didn't have anything to do with the flight but I passed it. I passed the exam after
lots of hard work and was able to get and you call sign so I'm taking a ham transceiver with me and I plan to
talk to him all over the world if I can of course and I think it's going to work quite well so invite them to
call you and zero and zero K.S. and I'll be on the twenty To ban on the fifteen and possibly tell me
about it so anybody who hears me. Please call and will be glad to have a right to
all they will and I'm sure. Listeners will be very interested to take that down
as well will be on the twenty meter band and
possibly on the fifteen meter bands. And even the ten meter band if the conditions are true but
probably the twenty will be the one that I'll use the most because I think that'll be best during the day in Iraq
A.S. and its myth. Dounia. Thank you very much a
messy. Thank you. This is bounded maze at Oakland airport with Giles Kingsford Smith.
Judea. One of the important things I think in teaching
children about money is there are limits to money. Which is
Tim an interesting phenomena because very frequently a child sees
mother father. Pulled the money out of the purser the pockets and buy whatever is necessary but they never
see the money go into the purser the pocket and the they have this kind of magical feeling particularly small
children. That there's an abundant supply of it and.
So then if the chances you know by me in the bicycle by me in the in the
Father Mother says we can't afford it. They don't want to talk to.
This is been advised in San Francisco where are you now what I
owe you for instance. Some argument or Strachan idea that was really neat.
To get a nuclear reactor at a neck. And it's basically the one
that now with the second study to gated. The situation in
wow I can only say that seems to be consistent
throughout the world. And recently I have participated in it. And in
Internet. Well let me. But in
a jiffy clean up among the uranium. I know if I don't know whether you're familiar with it. But this is
important for stereo because I've had uranium mine
if you are not very kind and about the open. And you know whole
country. Extensive study that minor truth could have a much
higher rate of cancer in free then mind in the mind but
do not. And so to mock gain. Yes
but not of course as much as it would be an area of
much more densely populated
factory. And then the state of Washington.
With widely believed that no Piriac do not produce any significant
amount of starch and ninety and finding Why do you need a
utility. Oh and by monitoring reports which were made available to me
by a state representative in Connecticut. Over a period of
eight. Stacia ninety in the mail
Connecticut. No crip. And had even remained at the ranch the better
or actually written way where indeed the United States started
humanity and the military. And it often dropped off in every direction away from
the stock. And then we United States and that
states that were meant to be quite mean like the state of Washington
and the rest of the United States and Great.
The state of Washington had a margin.
Nine hundred forty four. And we had a
Barbie average and they increased the United States. For the state of mind F.
O. Ne I'm going to state of to and it. Were
National Laboratory. You're a new man enrichment
facility that they have in the mid forty's. For all of that will be said we haven't had a
chance to look at. We find it to be OK that
one striking they haven't no
nuclear right.
And New Hampshire. During the period that
the lead role. Much as eight men in a period of three years.
They thankfully declined in cancer rate. And I went and I
had written them over and over and they
any country. And they were right if the when somebody
went away the norm it added It ended up. And I can think of that and they were only. The
combination of factors and. You never have a single factor. You have
General. My rates of cancer ride in an area that have both. I
knew I could make up or we can write. Oh wait you activity. And
then Bob and that guy. And if you were back why didn't you will get
an increase and if you back. It will actually be declining. And then we
went in and the New England area whenever we go to the city. Were
they thought of I don't give them a cold but
I better and buy a metal concentration for. They can't
increase the writer Michael. And the chemicals and
and to multiply by to get back up radioactive gas for one get
to the pie and the graded it was right then cancer incidence and then
we go way one we found out there was a decline
in cancer increases. And that increases.
Right in the state. The marketing already know create
a new subcommittee. All this comes on the heels of an examination by the American Energy
Commission of the sentiments on the floor of the Pacific north of Hawaii. As a possible site for the
future burial of atomic wastes. This is bounded maze for Radio New Zealand in San Francisco.
United States. According to the study from nine hundred seventy two to nine hundred seventy five.
The number of cancer deaths. Rednecks important to teach children about
money. Openly and honestly. But in doses which they can
understand and tolerate. Didn't accept an integrate into their lives so that they see it realistically
rather than developing all kinds of fantasies and mad he about what it can do and what it can do.
Well not overwhelm them with money. Not overwhelm them with fears about how tough it is to make
a living or how tough it is to pay taxes and whatever but as they ask
questions to encourage them to beef. Free to ask and.
Be sure they get an honest answer. Our
Jarvis. We don't write anymore government by the bureaucrats for the bureaucrats and have the
bureaucrats that today is gonna go the air over whom such people as Howard Miller president of the Los Angeles Board of Education.
Want to probably solution for team would be in the end. Out of some gravy train for something else to
be mistreated and of the public education system just as it means a cutting fire and I wish
protection. There were at writing commercials warning of the same fight where the best for a
service isn't an issue here in California proposition for to retrain job at
fire police protection receiving large parts of work or projects that protection will have to research
really crack after train crash. Probably three hundred yr race I regretted. But it
costs too much. Assets. So Howard Jarvis. I don't bring one word of that. I
don't think one teacher will lose your job at any time on the ground of this amendment. I don't think they
reduced the bridge force of the five for. For one person. It is state law while
we still have thirty three billion or thirty three thousand. Made into running straight.
And I still one thousand five hundred dollars a year. For every man woman and child I want to hear that I
don't actually sing a model for the state of the center of ocean. On twenty dollar belt. Doris
at seventy five don't regret revolutionary. I don't want our message out of the lines of San Jose
what he was saying made stretch. I think people are saying hey we're tired of this we don't write
any fashion. We want government to try to economize there. We have a
monster and the bear after three women in fact America and it's only anything. Our
bread. And I write irrationally. So let's kill that monster let's just kept them there
five five thousand voters have an effect don't have the state governments going to have to live with it even if I don't like it.
Governor Jerry Brown. And we're going to take this federal workers. This legal mandate and
created. Not so much as a statute. But I did I did. As an expression. People are
all. That's the castle. They want to protect. And they want a public sector. They want to grow in
that area slow down. It will do the best we can start and we perhaps at the heart
of all this is something that a special. Government task force has been studying for here the cost of housing.
We're gonna have to draw this road to victory. And I stretch our four year in any five
percent of the young people can buy a home of their own under any circumstance. And when we
are that American dream if you want to call it. Were hurting your
strategy bad. When you're young we will get by almost there screeching there are no
flash and younger people their desperation and ash. And I never said I wish they were
still open to access to finish college issued a shut eye or while everybody was raping
our targets at approached our. I require broader narrative.
Are already there are are are
you I'd like to talk to you when you get some answers back to find out what the general thrust of the rebuys are going down
and you are going to arrive at your office. Will be
released. I haven't saved the study because it is that it was specified I was of.
I want to Sacramento and I cut my own budget seven percent. We threw away the
frills and the limousines in the big mansion. And when I hear tonight. If people want that
spirit of frugality. To spread across California. At every level of government.
And they want it done in a way that is human compassionate and we
are in the midst of an economic boom in a state. And we will take as much of that surplus
as we can. And we'll cut those parts of state government. Where it's most intelligent
to do so we'll work with local government will work with. Everyone we can
to make sure that in very short order. We respond. In the best
way that we can because the Germans initiative is more than a piece of paper. It's more
than so many words that have been written into the Constitution. It's an idea. And the
fundamental idea. As I understand it is that a person's home is their castle. They
want to protected. And they do want us in government to control the ever expanding
growth. It's a big challenge it's not easy but we're going to manage it. And we're going to do it
without estate tax increase. We're going to put a limit on state spending. And we're going to
carry it out in the best way that we can in for that and I ask for your help I ask
for the help a lot of people on a state to do it very quickly.